"PROCEDURE: , Colonoscopy.,INDICATIONS: , Hematochezia, Personal history of colonic polyps.,MEDICATIONS:,  Midazolam 2 mg IV, Fentanyl 100 mcg IV,PROCEDURE:,  A History and Physical has been performed, and patient medication allergies have been reviewed.  The patient's tolerance of previous anesthesia has been reviewed.  The risks and benefits of the procedure and the sedation options and risks were discussed with the patient.  All questions were answered and informed consent was obtained.  Mental Status Examination:  alert and oriented.  Airway Examination:  normal oropharyngeal airway and neck mobility.  Respiratory Examination:  clear to auscultation.  CV Examination:  RRR, no murmurs, no S3 or S4.  ASA Grade Assessment:  P1 A normal healthy patient.  After reviewing the risks and benefits, the patient was deemed in satisfactory condition to undergo the procedure.  The anesthesia plan was to use conscious sedation.  Immediately prior to administration of medications, the patient was re-assessed for adequacy to receive sedatives.  The heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturations, blood pressure, adequacy of pulmonary ventilation, and response to care were monitored throughout the procedure.  The physical status of the patient was re-assessed after the procedure.  After I obtained informed consent, the scope was passed under direct vision.  Throughout the procedure, the patient's blood pressure, pulse, and oxygen saturations were monitored continuously.  The colonoscope was introduced through the anus and advanced to the cecum, identified by appendiceal orifice & IC valve.  The quality of the prep was good.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.,FINDINGS:,1.  A sessile, non-bleeding polyp was found in the rectum.  The polyp was 5 mm in size.  Polypectomy was performed with a saline injection-lift technique using the snare.  Resection and retrieval were complete.  Estimated blood loss was minimal.,2.  One pedunculated, non-bleeding polyp was found in the sigmoid colon.  The polyp was 7 mm in size.  Polypectomy was performed with a hot forceps.  Resection and retrieval were complete.  Estimated blood loss was minimal.,3.  Multiple large-mouthed diverticula were found in the descending colon.,4.  Internal, non-bleeding, prolapsed with spontaneous reduction (grade II) hemorrhoids were found on retroflexion.,IMPRESSION:,1.  One 5 mm benign appearing polyp in the rectum.  Resected and retrieved.,2.  One 7 mm polyp in the sigmoid colon.  Resected and retrieved.,3.  Diverticulosis.,4.  Internal hemorrhoids were found.,RECOMMENDATION:,1.  High fiber diet.,2.  Await pathology results.,3.  Repeat colonoscopy for surveillance in 3 years.,4.  The findings and recommendations were discussed with the patient.,CPT CODE(S):,45385, Colonoscopy, flexible, proximal to splenic flexure; with removal of tumor(s), polyp(s), or other lesion(s) by snare,technique.,45384, 59, Colonoscopy, flexible, proximal to splenic flexure; with removal of tumor(s), polyp(s), or other lesion(s) by hot,biopsy forceps or bipolar cautery.,45381, 59, Colonoscopy, flexible, proximal to splenic flexure; with directed submucosal injection(s), any substance.,ICD9 CODE(S):,211.4, Benign neoplasm of rectum and anal canal.,211.3, Benign neoplasm of colon.,562.10, Diverticulosis of colon (without mention of hemorrhage).,455.2, Internal hemorrhoids with other complication,578.1, Blood in stool.,v12.72, Personal history of colonic polyps."
"IDENTIFYING DATA:,  Psychosis.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 28-year-old Samoan female who was her grandmother's caretaker.  Her grandmother unfortunately had passed away recently and then the patient had developed erratic behavior.  She had lived with her parents and son, but parents removed son from the home, secondary to the patient's erratic behavior.  Recently, she was picked up by Kent Police Department ""leaping on Highway 99."",PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , PTSD, depression, and substance abuse.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  ,Unknown.,ALLERGIES:,  Unknown.,MEDICATIONS: , Unknown.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Unable to obtain secondary to the patient being in seclusion.,OBJECTIVE:,  Vital signs that were previously taken revealed a blood pressure of 152/86, pulse of 106, respirations of 18, and temperature is 97.6 degrees Fahrenheit.  General appearance, HEENT, and history and physical examination was unable to be obtained today, as patient was put into seclusion.,LABORATORY DATA: , Laboratory reviewed reveals a BMP, slightly elevated glucose at 100.2.  Previous urine tox was positive for THC.  Urinalysis was negative, but did note positive UA wbc's.  CBC, slightly elevated leukocytosis at 12.0, normal range is 4 to 11.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,AXIS I:  Psychosis.  Inpatient Psychiatric Team to follow.,AXIS II:  Deferred.,AXIS III:  We were unable to perform physical examination on the patient today secondary to her being in seclusion.  Laboratory was reviewed revealing leukocytosis, possibly secondary to a UTI.  We will wait until the patient is out of seclusion to perform examination.  Should she have some complaints of dysuria or any suprapubic pain, then we will begin on appropriate antimicrobial therapy.  We will followup with the patient should any new medical issues arise."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Right profound mixed sensorineural conductive hearing loss.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Right profound mixed sensorineural conductive hearing loss.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Right middle ear exploration with a Goldenberg TORP reconstruction.,ANESTHESIA:,  General ,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Less than 5 cc.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,DESCRIPTION OF FINDINGS:,  The patient consented to revision surgery because of the profound hearing loss in her right ear.  It was unclear from her previous operative records and CT scan as to whether or not she was a reconstruction candidate.  She had reports of stapes fixation as well as otosclerosis on her CT scan.,At surgery, she was found to have a mobile malleus handle, but her stapes was fixed by otosclerosis.  There was no incus.  There was no specific round window niche.  There was a very minute crevice; however, exploration of this area did not reveal a niche to a round window membrane.  The patient had a type of TORP prosthesis, which had tilted off the footplate anteriorly underneath the malleus handle.,DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCEDURE:,  The patient was brought to the operative room and placed in supine position.  The right face, ear, and neck prepped with ***** alcohol solution.  The right ear was draped in the sterile field.  External auditory canal was injected with 1% Xylocaine with 1:50,000 epinephrine.  A Fisch indwelling incision was made and a tympanomeatal flap was developed in a 12 o'clock to the 7 o'clock position.  Meatal skin was elevated, middle ear was entered.  This exposure included the oval window, round window areas.  There was a good cartilage graft in place and incorporated into the posterior superior ***** of the drum.  The previous prosthesis was found out of position as it had tilted out of position anteriorly, and there was no contact with the footplate.  The prosthesis was removed without difficulty.  The patient's stapes had an arch, but the ***** was atrophied.  Malleus handle was mobile.  The footplate was fixed.  Consideration have been given to performing a stapedectomy with a tissue seal and then returning later for prosthesis insertion; however, upon inspection of the round window area, there was found to be no definable round window niche, no round window membrane.  The patient was felt to have obliterated otosclerosis of this area along with the stapes fixation.  She is not considered to be a reconstruction candidate under the current circumstances.  No attempt was made to remove bone from the round window area.  A different style of Goldenberg TORP was placed on the footplate underneath the cartilage support in hopes of transferring some sound conduction from the tympanic membrane to the footplate.  The fit was secure and supported with Gelfoam in the middle ear.  The tympanomeatal flap was returned to anatomic position supported with Gelfoam saturated Ciprodex.  The incision was closed with #4-0 Vicryl and individual #5-0 nylon to the skin, and a sterile dressing was applied."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , History of polyps.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Normal colonoscopy, left colonic diverticular disease.,2.  3+ benign prostatic hypertrophy.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Total colonoscopy and photography.,GROSS FINDINGS: , This is a 74-year-old white male here for recheck colonoscopy for a history of polyps.  After signed informed consent, blood pressure monitoring, EKG monitoring, and pulse oximetry monitoring, he was brought to the Endoscopic Suite.  He was given 100 mg of Demerol, 3 mg of Versed IV push slowly.  Digital examination revealed a large prostate for which he is following up with his urologist.  No nodules.  3+ BPH.  Anorectal canal was within normal limits.  No stricture tumor or ulcer.  The Olympus CF 20L video endoscope was inserted per anus.  The anorectal canal was visualized, was normal.  The sigmoid, descending, splenic, and transverse showed scattered diverticula.  The hepatic, ascending, cecum, and ileocecal valve was visualized and was normal.  The colonoscope was removed.  The air was aspirated.  The patient was discharged with high-fiber, diverticular diet.  Recheck colonoscopy three years."
"SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 68-year-old white female who presents for complete physical, Pap and breast exam.  Her last Pap smear was 05/02/2002.  Her only complaint is that she has had some occasional episodes of some midchest pain that seems to go to her back, usually occurs at rest.  Has awakened her at night on occasion and only last about 15 to 20 minutes.  Denies nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis or shortness of breath with it.  This has not happened in almost two months.  She had a normal EKG one year ago.  Otherwise, has been doing quite well.  Did quite well with her foot surgery with Dr. Clayton.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Reactive airway disease; rheumatoid arthritis, recent surgery on her hands and feet; gravida 4, para 5, with one set of twins, all vaginal deliveries; iron deficiency anemia; osteoporosis; and hypothyroidism.,MEDICATIONS:,  Methotrexate 2.5 mg five weekly, Fosamax 70 mg weekly, folic acid daily, amitriptyline 15 mg daily, Synthroid 0.088 mg daily, calcium two in the morning and two at noon, multivitamin daily, baby aspirin daily and Colace one to three b.i.d.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is married.  Denies tobacco, alcohol and drug use.  She is not employed outside the home.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Unremarkable.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  HEENT, pulmonary, cardiovascular, GI, GU, musculoskeletal, neurologic, dermatologic, constitutional and psychiatric are all negative except for HPI.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight 146.  Blood pressure 100/64.  Pulse 80.  Respirations 16.  Temperature 97.7.,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Grossly within normal limits.,Neck:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  No thyromegaly.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds, soft and nontender.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,Breasts:  No nipple discharge.  No lumps or masses palpated.  No dimpling of the skin.  No axillary lymph nodes palpated.  Self-breast exam discussed and encouraged.,Pelvic:  Normal female genitalia.  Atrophic vaginal mucosa.  No cervical lesions.  No cervical motion tenderness.  No adnexal tenderness or masses palpated.,Rectal:  Normal sphincter tone.  No stool present in the vault.  No rectal masses palpated.,Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  She does have obvious rheumatoid arthritis of her hands.,Neurologic:  Grossly intact.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Chest pain.  The patient will evaluate when it happens next; what she has been eating, what activities she has been performing.  She had normal ECG one year ago.  In fact this does not sound cardiac in nature.  We will not do further cardiac workup at this time.  Did discuss with her she may be having some GI reflux type symptoms.,2.  Hypothyroidism.  We will recheck TSH to make sure she is on the right amount of medication at this time, making adjustments as needed.,3.  Rheumatoid arthritis.  Continue her methotrexate as prescribed by Dr. Mortensen, and follow up with Dr. XYZ as needed.,4.  Osteoporosis.  It is time for her to have a repeat DEXA at this time and that will be scheduled.,5.  Health care maintenance, Pap smear was obtained today.  The patient will be scheduled for mammogram."
"HISTORY: , The patient is an 86-year-old woman with a history of aortic valve replacement in the past with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who was admitted yesterday with the recurrence of such in a setting of hypokalemia, incomplete compliance with obstructive sleep apnea therapy with CPAP, chocolate/caffeine ingestion and significant mental stress.  Despite repletion of her electrolytes and maintenance with Diltiazem IV she has maintained atrial fibrillation.  I have discussed in detail with the patient regarding risks, benefits, and alternatives of the procedure.  After an in depth discussion of the procedure (please see my initial consultation for further details) I asked the patient this morning if she would like me to repeat that as that discussion had happened yesterday.  The patient declined.  I invited questions for her which she stated she had none and wanted to go forward with the cardioversion which seemed appropriate.,PROCEDURE NOTE: , The appropriate time-out procedure was performed as per Medical Center protocol including proper identification of the patient, physician, procedure, documentation, and there were no safety issues identified by myself nor the staff.  The patient participated actively in this.  She received a total of 4 mg of Versed then and 50 micrograms of fentanyl with utilizing titrated conscious sedation with good effect.  She was placed in the supine position and hands free patches had previously been placed in the AP position and she received one synchronized cardioversion attempt after Diltiazem drip had been turned off with successful resumption of normal sinus rhythm.  This was confirmed on 12 lead EKG.,IMPRESSION/PLAN: , Successful resumption of normal sinus rhythm from recurrent atrial fibrillation.  The patient's electrolytes are now normal and that will need close watching to avoid hypokalemia in the future, as well as she has been previously counseled for strict adherence to sleep apnea therapy with CPAP and perhaps repeat sleep evaluation would be appropriate to titrate her settings, as well as avoidance of caffeine ingestion including chocolate and minimization of mental stress.  She will be discharged on her usual robust AV nodal antiarrhythmic therapy with sotalol 80 mg p.o. b.i.d., metoprolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d., Diltiazem CD 240 mg p.o. daily and digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily and to be clear she does have a permanent pacemaker implanted.  She will follow-up with her regular cardiologist, Dr. X, for whom I am covering this weekend.,This was all discussed in detail with the patient, as well as her granddaughter with the patient's verbal consent at the bedside."
"PROCEDURE: , Circumcision.,PRE-PROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: , Normal male phallus.,POST-PROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: , Normal male phallus.,ANESTHESIA:  ,1% lidocaine without epinephrine.,INDICATIONS: , The risks and benefits of the procedure were discussed with the parents.  The risks are infection, hemorrhage, and meatal stenosis.  The benefits are ease of care and cleanliness and fewer urinary tract infections.  The parents understand this and have signed a permit.,FINDINGS: , The infant is without evidence of hypospadias or chordee prior to the procedure.,TECHNIQUE:  ,The infant was given a dorsal penile block with 1% lidocaine without epinephrine using a tuberculin syringe and 0.5 cc of lidocaine was delivered subcutaneously at 10:30 and at 1:30 o'clock at the dorsal base of the penis.,The infant was prepped then with Betadine and draped with a sterile towel in the usual manner.  Clamps were placed at 10 o'clock and 2 o'clock and the adhesions between the glans and mucosa were instrumentally lysed.  Dorsal hemostasis was established and a dorsal slit was made.  The foreskin was fully retracted and remaining adhesions between the glans and mucosa were manually lysed.  The infant was fitted with a XX-cm Plastibell.  The foreskin was retracted around the Plastibell and circumferential hemostasis was established.  The excess foreskin was removed with scissors and the infant tolerated the procedure well with a minimum amount of blood loss.  Instructions for continuing care are to watch for any evidence of hemorrhage or urination and the parents are instructed in the care of the circumcised penis."
"PROCEDURES: , Left heart catheterization, left ventriculography, and left and right coronary arteriography.,INDICATIONS: , Chest pain and non-Q-wave MI with elevation of troponin I only.,TECHNIQUE:  ,The patient was brought to the procedure room in satisfactory condition.  The right groin was prepped and draped in routine fashion.  An arterial sheath was inserted into the right femoral artery.,Left and right coronary arteries were studied with a 6FL4 and 6FR4 Judkins catheters respectively.  Cine coronary angiograms were done in multiple views.,Left heart catheterization was done using the 6-French pigtail catheter.  Appropriate pressures were obtained before and after the left ventriculogram, which was done in the RAO view.,At the end of the procedure, the femoral catheter was removed and Angio-Seal was applied without any complications.,FINDINGS:,1.  LV is normal in size and shape with good contractility, EF of 60%.,2.  LMCA normal.,3.  LAD has 20% to 30% stenosis at the origin.,4.  LCX is normal.,5.  RCA is dominant and normal.,RECOMMENDATIONS: , Medical management, diet, and exercise.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily, p.r.n. nitroglycerin for chest pain.  Follow up in the clinic."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Thyroid goiter.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Thyroid goiter.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Total thyroidectomy.,ANESTHESIA:,1.  General endotracheal anesthesia.,2.  9 cc of 1% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,PATHOLOGY: , Thyroid.,INDICATIONS:  ,The patient is a female with a history of Graves disease.  Suppression was attempted, however, unsuccessful.  She presents today with her thyroid goiter.  A thyroidectomy was indicated at this time secondary to the patient's chronic condition.  Indications, alternatives, risks, consequences, benefits, and details of the procedure including specifically the risk of recurrent laryngeal nerve paresis or paralysis or vocal cord dysfunction and possible trach were discussed with the patient in detail.  She agreed to proceed.  A full informed consent was obtained.,PROCEDURE: , The patient presented to ABCD General Hospital on 09/04/2003 with the history was reviewed and physical examinations was evaluated.  The patient was brought by the Department of Anesthesiology, brought back to surgical suite and given IV access and general endotracheal anesthesia.  A 9 cc of 1% lidocaine with 1:100,000 of epinephrine was infiltrated into the area of pre-demarcated above the suprasternal notch.  Time is allowed for full hemostasis to be achieved.  The patient was then prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion.  A #10 blade was then utilized to make an incision in the pre-demarcated and anesthetized area.  Unipolar electrocautery was utilized for hemostasis.  Finger dissection was carried out in the superior and inferior planes.  Platysma was identified and dissected and a subplatysmal plane was created in the superior and inferior, medial and lateral directions using hemostat, Metzenbaum, and blunt dissection.  The strap muscles were identified.  The midline raphe was not easily identifiable at this time.  An incision was made through what appeared to be in the midline raphe and dissection was carried down to the thyroid.  Sternohyoid and sternothyroid muscles were identified and separated on the patient's right side and then subsequently on the left side.  It was noted at this time that the thyroid lobule on the right side is a bi-lobule.  Kitner blunt dissection was utilized to bluntly dissect the overlying thyroid fascia as well as strap muscles off the thyroid, force in the lateral direction.  This was carried down to the inferior and superior areas.  The superior pole of the right lobule was then identified.  A hemostat was placed in the cricothyroid groove and a Kitner was placed in this area.  A second Kitner was placed on lateral aspect of the superior pole and the superior pole of the right thyroid was retracted inferiorly.  Careful dissection was then carried out in a very meticulous fashion in the superior lobe and identified the appropriate vessels and cauterized with bipolar or ligated with the suture ligature.  This was carried out until the superior pole was identified.  Careful attention was made to avoid nerve injury in this area.  Dissection was then carried down again bluntly separating the inferior and superior lobes.  The bilobed right thyroid was then retracted medially.  The recurrent laryngeal nerve was then identified and tracked to its insertion.  The overlying vessels of the middle thyroid vein as well as the associated structures were then identified and great attention was made to perform a right careful meticulous dissection to remove the fascial attachments superficial to the recurrent laryngeal nerve off the thyroid.  When it was completed, this lobule was then removed from Berry's ligament.  There was noted to be no isthmus at this time and the entire right lobule was then sent to the Pathology for further evaluation.  Attention was then diverted to the patient's left side.  In a similar fashion, the sternohyoid and sternothyroid muscles were already separated.  Army-Navy as well as femoral retractors were utilized to lateralize the appropriate musculature.  The middle thyroid vein was identified.  Blunt dissection was carried out laterally to superiorly once again.  A hemostat was utilized to make an opening in the cricothyroid groove and a Kitner was then placed in this area.  Another Kitner was placed on the lateral aspect of the superior lobe of the left thyroid and retracted inferiorly.  Once again, a careful meticulous dissection was utilized to identify the appropriate structures in the superior pole of the left thyroid and suture ligature as well as bipolar cautery was utilized for hemostasis.  Once again, a careful attention was made not to injure the nerve in this area.  The superior pole was then freed appropriately and blunt dissection was carried down to lateral and inferior aspects.  The inferior aspect was then identified.  The inferior thyroid artery and vein were then identified and ligated.  The left thyroid was then medialized and the recurrent laryngeal nerve has been identified.  A careful dissection was then carried out to remove the fascial attachments superficial to the recurrent laryngeal nerve on the side as close to the thyroid gland as possible.  The thyroid was then removed from the Berry's ligament and it was then sent to Pathology for further evaluation.  Evaluation of the visceral space did not reveal any bleeding at this time.  This was irrigated and pinpoint areas were bipolored as necessary.  Surgicel was then placed bilaterally.  The strap muscles as well as the appropriate fascial attachments were then approximated with a #3-0 Vicryl suture in the midline.  The platysma was identified and approximated with a #4-0 Vicryl suture and the subdermal plane was approximated with a #4-0 Vicryl suture.  A running suture consisting of #5-0 Prolene suture was then placed and fast absorbing #6-0 was then placed in a running fashion.  Steri-Strips, Tincoban, bacitracin and a pressure gauze was then placed.  The patient was then admitted for further evaluation and supportive care.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  The patient was transferred to Postanesthesia Care Unit in stable condition."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT:,"
