She was evaluated this a.m. and was without any significant clinical change.  Her white count has been improving and down to 12,000.  A chest x-ray obtained today showed some bilateral infiltrates, but no acute cardiopulmonary change.  There was a suggestion of a bilateral lower lobe pneumonitis or pneumonia.,She has been on Zosyn for the infection.,Throughout her hospitalization, we have been trying to adjust her pain medications.  She states that the methadone did not work for her.  She was ""immune"" to oxycodone.  She had been on tramadol before and was placed back on that.  There was some question that this may have been causing some dizziness.  She also was on clonazepam and alprazolam for the underlying bipolar disorder.,Apparently, her husband was in this afternoon.  He had a box of her pain medications.  It is unclear whether she took a bunch of these or precisely what happened.  I was contacted that she was less responsive.  She periodically has some difficulty to arouse due to pain medications, which she has been requesting repeatedly, though at times does not appear to have objective signs of ongoing pain.  The nurse found her and was unable to arouse her at this point.  There was a concern that she had taken some medications from home.  She was given Narcan and appeared to come around some.  Breathing remained somewhat labored and she had some diffuse scattered rhonchi, which certainly changed from this a.m.  Additional Narcan was given as well as some medications to reverse a possible benzodiazepine toxicity.  With O2 via mask, oxygenation was stable at 90% to 95% after initial hypoxia was noted.  A chest x-ray was obtained at this time.  An ECG was obtained, which shows a sinus tachycardia, noted to have ischemic abnormalities.,In light of the acute decompensation, she was then transferred to the ICU.  We will continue the IV Zosyn.  Respiratory protocol with respiratory management.  Continue alprazolam p.r.n., but avoid if she appears sedated.  We will attempt to avoid additional pain medications, but we will continue with the Dilaudid for time being.  I suspect she will need something to control her bipolar disorder.,Pulmonary Medicine Associates have been contacted to consult in light of the ICU admission.  At this juncture, she does not appear to need an intubation.  Pending chest x-ray, she may require additional IV furosemide.
PROCEDURE:,:  Informed consent was obtained from the patient.  Special mention was made of the possibility of infection and necrosis of the heel pad.  The patient was placed in the supine position.  The tender area in the medial aspect of the heel was identified by palpation.  After proper preparation with antiseptic solution of the skin, a syringe containing 2 mL of 1% lidocaine was attached to 1.5"" 27 gauge needle.  The needle was carefully advanced through the carefully identified point at a right angle to the skin, directly towards the central and medial aspect of the calcaneus.  The needle was advanced very slowly until the needle impinged on the bone, and then was withdrawn slowly.  The contents of the syringe were then gently injected.  Subsequently, the needle was left in place and a syringe containing 2 mL of 0.25% Marcaine and 1 mL of Depo-Medrol was attached to the needle and injected after aspiration at this site.  Subsequently the needle was removed.  Pressure was applied at the site of insertion and once it was made sure there was no bleeding taking place, a small bandage was applied.,POST PROCEDURE INSTRUCTIONS:, The patient has been asked to report to us any redness, swelling, inflammation, or fevers.  The patient has been asked to restrict the use of the * extremity for the next 24 hours.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Intrauterine pregnancy at term.,2.  Arrest of dilation. ,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Intrauterine pregnancy at term.,2.  Arrest of dilation.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Primary low-transverse cesarean section.,ANESTHESIA: , Epidural.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 1000 mL.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,FINDINGS:  ,Female infant in cephalic presentation, OP position, weight 9 pounds 8 ounces.  Apgars were 9 at 1 minute and 9 at 5 minutes.  Normal uterus, tubes, and ovaries were noted.,INDICATIONS:  ,The patient is a 20-year-old gravida 1, para 0 female, who presented to labor and delivery in early active labor at 40 and 6/7 weeks gestation.  The patient progressed to 8 cm, at which time, Pitocin was started.  She subsequently progressed to 9 cm, but despite adequate contractions, arrested dilation at 9 cm.  A decision was made to proceed with a primary low transverse cesarean section.,The procedure was described to the patient in detail including possible risks of bleeding, infection, injury to surrounding organs, and possible need for further surgery.  Informed consent was obtained prior to proceeding with the procedure.,PROCEDURE NOTE:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room where epidural anesthesia was found to be adequate.  The patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion in the dorsal supine position with a left-ward tilt.  A Pfannenstiel skin incision was made with the scalpel and carried through to the underlying layer of fascia using the Bovie.  The fascia was incised in the midline and extended laterally using Mayo scissors.  Kocher clamps were used to elevate the superior aspect of the fascial incision, which was elevated, and the underlying rectus muscles were dissected off bluntly and using Mayo scissors.  Attention was then turned to the inferior aspect of the fascial incision, which in similar fashion was grasped with Kocher clamps, elevated, and the underlying rectus muscles were dissected off bluntly and using Mayo scissors.  The rectus muscles were dissected in the midline.,The peritoneum was bluntly dissected, entered, and extended superiorly and inferiorly with good visualization of the bladder.  The bladder blade was inserted.  The vesicouterine peritoneum was identified with pickups and entered sharply using Metzenbaum scissors.  This incision was extended laterally and the bladder flap was created digitally.  The bladder blade was reinserted.  The lower uterine segment was incised in a transverse fashion using the scalpel and extended using manual traction.  Clear fluid was noted.  The infant was subsequently delivered atraumatically.  The nose and mouth were bulb suctioned.  The cord was clamped and cut.  The infant was subsequently handed to the awaiting nursery nurse.  Next, cord blood was obtained per the patient's request for cord blood donation, which took several minutes to perform.  Subsequent to the collection of this blood, the placenta was removed spontaneously intact with a 3-vessel cord noted.  The uterus was exteriorized and cleared of all clots and debris.  The uterine incision was repaired in 2 layers using 0 chromic suture.  Hemostasis was visualized.  The uterus was returned to the abdomen.,The pelvis was copiously irrigated.  The uterine incision was reexamined and was noted to be hemostatic.  The rectus muscles were reapproximated in the midline using 3-0 Vicryl.  The fascia was closed with 0 Vicryl, the subcutaneous layer was closed with 3-0 plain gut, and the skin was closed with staples.  Sponge, lap, and instrument counts were correct x2.  The patient was stable at the completion of the procedure and was subsequently transferred to the recovery room in stable condition.
PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1. Left heart catheterization with coronary angiography and left ventricular pressure measurement.,2. Left ventricular angiography was not performed.,3. Right posterior descending artery percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty followed by stenting.,4. Right femoral artery angiography.,5. Perclose to seal the right femoral arteriotomy.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:, Patient presenting with a history of coronary artery disease in the past with coronary angiography in the early 1990s. The patient presented with what appeared to be a COPD exacerbation and had mildly positive cardiac enzyme markers suggestive of a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction. He was subsequently dispositioned to the cardiac catheterization lab for further evaluation.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:, After informed consent was obtained, the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization lab, where his procedure was performed. The patient was appropriately prepped and prepared on the table, after which his right groin was locally anesthetized with 1% lidocaine. Then, a 6-French sheath was inserted into the right femoral artery. Over a standard 0.035 guidewire, coronary angiography and left ventricular pressure measurements were performed using a 6-French JL4 diagnostic catheter to image the left coronary artery, a 6-French JR4 diagnostic catheter to image the right coronary artery, a 6-French angled pigtail catheter to measure left ventricular pressure. At the conclusion of the diagnostic study, the case was progressed to percutaneous coronary intervention, which will be described below. Subsequently, right femoral artery angiography was performed which showed right femoral artery which was free of significant atherosclerotic plaque, and an arteriotomy that was suitable for a closure device. Then, a Perclose was used to seal the right femoral arteriotomy.,HEMODYNAMIC DATA:, The opening aortic pressure was 91/63. The left ventricular pressure was 94/13 with an end-diastolic pressure of 24. Left ventricular ejection fraction was not assessed, as ventriculogram was not performed. The patient did have some elevated creatinine earlier in this hospital course which warranted limitation of contrast where possible.,CORONARY ANGIOGRAM:, The left main coronary artery was angiographically okay. The LAD had mild diffuse disease. There appeared to be distal tapering of the LAD. The left circumflex had mild diffuse disease. In the very distal aspect of the circumflex after OM-3 and OM-4 type branch, there was a long, severely diseased segment that appeared to be chronic and subtotal in one area. The runoff from this area appeared to be a very small PLOM type branch and continuation of a circ which did not appear to supply much territory, and there was not much to salvage by approaching this lesion. The right coronary artery had mild diffuse disease. The PLV branch was 100% occluded at its ostium at the crux. The PDA at the ostium had an 80% stenosis. The PDA was a fairly sizeable vessel with a long course. The right coronary is dominant.,CONCLUSION:, Mild diffuse coronary artery disease with severe distal left circumflex lesion with not much runoff beyond this lesion. This circumflex appears to be chronically diseased and has areas that appear to be subtotal. There is a 100% PLV branch which is also chronic and reported in his angiogram in the 1990s. There is an ostial 80% right PDA lesion. The plan is to proceed with percutaneous intervention to the right PDA.,The case was then progressed to percutaneous intervention of the right PDA. A 6-French JR4 guide catheter with side holes was selected and used to engage the right coronary artery ostium. The lesion was crossed with a long BMW 0.014 guidewire. Then, we ballooned the lesion with a 2.5 x 9 mm Maverick balloon. Subsequently, we stented the lesion with a 2.5 x 16 mm Taxus drug-eluting stent with a nice angiographic result. The patient tolerated the procedure very well, without complications.,ANGIOPLASTY CONCLUSION:, Successful percutaneous intervention with drug-eluting stent placement to the ostium of the PDA.,RECOMMENDATIONS:, Aspirin indefinitely, and Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily for no less than six months. The patient will be dispositioned back to telemetry for further monitoring.,TOTAL MEDICATIONS DURING PROCEDURE:, Versed 1 mg and fentanyl 25 mcg for conscious sedation. Heparin 8400 units IV was given for anticoagulation. Ancef 1 g IV was given for closure device prophylaxis.,CONTRAST ADMINISTERED:, 200 mL.,FLUOROSCOPY TIME:, 12.4 minutes.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Multiple complex lacerations of the periorbital area.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Multiple complex lacerations of the periorbital area.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Closure of multiple complex lacerations.,ANESTHESIA: , Local 1% with epinephrine.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Minimal.,SPECIMEN: , None.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,HISTORY:,  The patient is a 19-year-old Caucasian male who presented status post a bicycle versus MVA.  The patient obtained multiple complex lacerations of the right periorbital area.,PROCEDURE: , Informed consent was properly obtained from the patient and he was placed in a 45-degree angle.  Topical viscous lidocaine was applied for pain management and then 1% epinephrine was injected into the periorbital area for anesthetic effect.  A #5-0 Vicryl suture was used to close the deep layers and then #6-0 Prolene was used in interrupted fashion for superficial closure.  The patient was instructed to take Keflex antibiotic for 10 days.  He was also instructed and given prescription for erythromycin ophthalmic ointment to be applied to the periorbital areas t.i.d.  The patient is to ice the area and to follow up in one week for suture removal.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and he was discharged from the Emergency Room in stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Severe neurologic or neurogenic scoliosis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Severe neurologic or neurogenic scoliosis.,PROCEDURES:  ,1.  Anterior spine fusion from T11-L3.,2.  Posterior spine fusion from T3-L5.,3.  Posterior spine segmental instrumentation from T3-L5, placement of morcellized autograft and allograft.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 500 mL.,FINDINGS: , The patient was found to have a severe scoliosis.  This was found to be moderately corrected.  Hardware was found to be in good positions on AP and lateral projections using fluoroscopy.,INDICATIONS: , The patient has a history of severe neurogenic scoliosis.  He was indicated for anterior and posterior spinal fusion to allow for correction of the curvature as well as prevention of further progression.  Risks and benefits were discussed at length with the family over many visits.  They wished to proceed.,PROCEDURE:,  The patient was brought to the operating room and placed on the operating table in the supine position.  General anesthesia was induced without incident.  He was given a weight-adjusted dose of antibiotics.  Appropriate lines were then placed.  He had a neuromonitoring performed as well.,He was then initially placed in the lateral decubitus position with his left side down and right side up.  An oblique incision was then made over the flank overlying the 10th rib.  Underlying soft tissues were incised down at the skin incision.  The rib was then identified and subperiosteal dissection was performed.  The rib was then removed and used for autograft placement later.,The underlying pleura was then split longitudinally.  This allowed for entry into the pleural space.  The lung was then packed superiorly with wet lap.  The diaphragm was then identified and this was split to allow for access to the thoracolumbar spine.,Once the spine was achieved, subperiosteal dissection was performed over the visualized vertebral bodies.  This required cauterization of the segmental vessels.  Once the subperiosteal dissection was performed to the posterior and anterior extents possible, the diskectomies were performed.  These were performed from T11-L3.  This was over 5 levels.  Disks and endplates were then removed.  Once this was performed, morcellized rib autograft was placed into the spaces.  The table had been previously bent to allow for easier access of the spine.  This was then straightened to allow for compression and some correction of the curvature.,The diaphragm was then repaired as was the pleura overlying the thoracic cavity.  The ribs were held together with #1 Vicryl sutures.  Muscle layers were then repaired using a running #2-0 PDS sutures and the skin was closed using running inverted #2-0 PDS suture as well.  Skin was closed as needed with running #4-0 Monocryl.  This was dressed with Xeroform dry sterile dressings and tape.,The patient was then rotated into a prone position.  The spine was prepped and draped in a standard fashion.,Longitudinal incision was made from T2-L5.  The underlying soft tissues were incised down at the skin incision.  Electrocautery was then used to maintain hemostasis.  The spinous processes were then identified and the overlying apophyses were split.  This allowed for subperiosteal dissection over the spinous processes, lamina, facet joints, and transverse processes.  Once this was completed, the C-arm was brought in, which allowed for easy placement of screws in the lumbar spine.  These were placed at L4 and L5.  The interspaces between the spinous processes were then cleared of soft tissue and ligamentum flavum.  This was done using a rongeur as well as a Kerrison rongeur.  Spinous processes were then harvested for morcellized autograft.,Once all the interspaces were prepared, Songer wires were then passed.  These were placed from L3-T3.,Once the wires were placed, a unit rod was then positioned.  This was secured initially at the screws distally on both the left and right side.  The wires were then tightened in sequence from the superior extent to the inferior extent, first on the left-sided spine where I was operating and then on the right side spine.  This allowed for excellent correction of the scoliotic curvature.,Decortication was then performed and placement of a morcellized autograft and allograft was then performed after thoroughly irrigating the wound with 4 liters of normal saline mixed with bacitracin.  This was done using pulsed lavage.,The wound was then closed in layers.  The deep fascia was closed using running #1 PDS suture, subcutaneous tissue was closed using running inverted #2-0 PDS suture, the skin was closed using #4-0 Monocryl as needed.  The wound was then dressed with Steri-Strips, Xeroform dry sterile dressings, and tape.  The patient was awakened from anesthesia and taken to the intensive care unit in stable condition.  All instrument, sponge, and needle counts were correct at the end of the case.,The patient will be managed in the ICU and then on the floor as indicated.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Septic left total knee arthroplasty.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Septic left total knee arthroplasty.,OPERATION PERFORMED: , Arthroscopic irrigation and debridement of same with partial synovectomy.,ANESTHESIA:,  LMA.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Minimal.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,DRAINS:,  None.,INDICATIONS:,  The patient is an 81-year-old female, who is approximately 10 years status post total knee replacement performed in another state, who presented a couple of days ago to the office with worsening pain without injury and whose symptoms have been present for approximately a month following a possible urinary tract infection.  The patient' knee was aspirated in the office and cultures were positive for Escherichia coli.  She presents for operative therapy.,DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: , After obtaining informed consent and the administration of antibiotics since her cultures had already been obtained, the patient was taken to the operating room and following satisfactory induction and the patient was placed on the table in supine position.  The left upper extremity was prepped and draped without a tourniquet.  The knee was injected with 30 mL of normal saline and standard arthroscopy portals were created.  The arthroscopy was inserted and a complete diagnostic was performed.  Arthroscopic pictures were taken throughout the procedure.  The knee was copiously irrigated with 9 L of irrigant.  A partial synovectomy was performed in all compartments.  Minimal amount of polyethylene wear was noted.  The total knee components were identified arthroscopically for future revision surgery.  The knee was then drained and the arthroscopic instruments were removed.  The portals were closed with 4-0 nylon and local anesthetic was injected.  A sterile dressing was applied and the patient was placed in a knee immobilizer, awakened from anesthesia and transported to the recovery room in stable condition and tolerated the procedure well.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Perirectal abscess.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Perirectal abscess.,PROCEDURE: , Incision and drainage (I&D) of perirectal abscess.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the operating room after obtaining an informed consent.  A spinal anesthetic was given, and then the patient in the jackknife position had his gluteal area prepped and draped in the usual fashion.,Prior to prepping, I performed a digital rectal examination that showed no pathology and then I proceeded to insert an anoscope.  I found some small internal hemorrhoids and no fistulous tracts.,Then, the patient was prepped and draped in the usual fashion and the abscess area, which was in the left gluteal side, was incised with a cruciate incision and drained.  All necrotic tissue was debrided.  The cavity was digitally explored and found to have no communication to any deeper structures or to the colorectal area.  The cavity was irrigated with saline and then was packed with iodoform gauze and dressed.,Estimated blood loss was minimal.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was sent for recovery in satisfactory condition.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Well-child check.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This is a 12-month-old female here with her mother for a well-child check.  Mother states she has been doing well.  She is concerned about drainage from her left eye.  Mother states she was diagnosed with a blocked tear duct on that side shortly after birth, and normally she has crusted secretions every morning.  She states it is worse when the child gets a cold.  She has been using massaging when she can remember to do so.  The patient is drinking whole milk without problems.  She is using solid foods three times a day.  She sleeps well without problems.  Her bowel movements are regular without problems.  She does not attend daycare.,DEVELOPMENTAL ASSESSMENT:,  Social:  She can feed herself with fingers.  She is comforted by parent’s touch.  She is able to separate and explore.  Fine motor:  She scribbles.  She has a pincer grasp.  She can drink from a cup.  Language:  She says dada.  She says one to two other words and she indicates her wants.  Gross motor:  She can stand alone.  She cruises.  She walks alone.  She stoops and recovers.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  She is alert, in no distress.,Vital signs:  Weight:  25th percentile.  Height:  25th percentile.  Head circumference:  50th percentile.,HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light.  Left eye with watery secretions and crusted lashes.  Conjunctiva is clear.  TMs are clear bilaterally.  Nares are patent.  Mild nasal congestion present.  Oropharynx is clear.,Neck:  Supple.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.,Heart:  Regular.  No murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft.  Positive bowel sounds.  No masses.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,GU:  Female external genitalia.,Extremities:  Symmetrical.  Femoral pulses are 2+ bilaterally.  Full range of motion of all extremities.,Neurologic:  Grossly intact.,Skin:  Normal turgor.,Testing:  Hearing and vision assessments grossly normal.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Well child.,2.  Left lacrimal duct stenosis.,PLAN:,  MMR #1 and Varivax #1 today.  VIS statements given to Mother after discussion.  Evaluation and treatment as needed with Dr. XYZ with respect to the blocked tear duct.  Anticipatory guidance for age.  She is to return to the office in three months.
PREPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS:,  Change in bowel function.,POSTPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS:,  Proctosigmoiditis.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Colonoscopy with biopsy.,ANESTHESIA: , IV sedation.,POSTPROCEDURE CONDITION: , Stable.  ,INDICATIONS:,  The patient is a 33-year-old with a recent change in bowel function and hematochezia.  He is here for colonoscopy.  He understands the risks and wishes to proceed.  ,PROCEDURE: , The patient was brought to the endoscopy suite where he was placed in left lateral Sims position, underwent IV sedation.  Digital rectal examination was performed, which showed no masses, and a boggy prostate.  The colonoscope was placed in the rectum and advanced, under direct vision, to the cecum.  In the rectum and sigmoid, there were ulcerations, edema, mucosal abnormalities, and loss of vascular pattern consistent with proctosigmoiditis.  Multiple random biopsies were taken of the left and right colon to see if this was in fact pan colitis.,RECOMMENDATIONS: , Follow up with me in 2 weeks and we will begin Canasa suppositories.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Low back pain.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Low back pain.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Lumbar discogram L2-3.,2.  Lumbar discogram L3-4.,3.  Lumbar discogram L4-5.,4.  Lumbar discogram L5-S1.,ANESTHESIA:  ,IV sedation.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:  ,The patient was brought to the Radiology Suite and placed prone onto a radiolucent table.  The C-arm was brought into the operative field and AP, left right oblique and lateral fluoroscopic images of the L1-2 through L5-S1 levels were obtained.  We then proceeded to prepare the low back with a Betadine solution and draped sterile.  Using an oblique approach to the spine, the L5-S1 level was addressed using an oblique projection angled C-arm in order to allow for perpendicular penetration of the disc space.  A metallic marker was then placed laterally and a needle entrance point was determined.  A skin wheal was raised with 1% Xylocaine and an #18-gauge needle was advanced up to the level of the disc space using AP, oblique and lateral fluoroscopic projections.  A second needle, #22-gauge 6-inch needle was then introduced into the disc space and with AP and lateral fluoroscopic projections, was placed into the center of the nucleus.  We then proceeded to perform a similar placement of needles at the L4-5, L3-4 and L2-3 levels.,A solution of Isovue 300 with 1 gm of Ancef was then drawn into a 10 cc syringe and without informing the patient of our injecting, we then proceeded to inject the disc spaces sequentially.
FINDINGS:,There are posttraumatic cysts along the volar midline and volar lateral aspects of the lunate which are likely posttraumatic. There is no acute marrow edema (series #12 images #5-7). Marrow signal is otherwise normal in the distal radius and ulna, throughout the carpals and throughout the proximal metacarpals.,There is a partial tear of the volar component of the scapholunate ligament in the region of the posttraumatic lunate cyst with retraction and thickening towards the scaphoid (series #6 image #5, series #8 images #22-36). There is tearing of the membranous portion of the ligament. The dorsal component is intact.,The lunatotriquetral ligament is thickened and lax, but intact (series #8 image #32).,There is no tearing of the radial or ulnar attachment of the triangular fibrocartilage (series #6 image #7). There is a mildly positive ulnar variance. Normal ulnar collateral ligament.,The patient was positioned in dorsiflexion. Carpal alignment is normal and there are no tears of the dorsal or ventral intercarpal ligaments (series #14 image #9).,There is a longitudinal split tear of the ECU tendon which is enlarged both at the level of and distal to the ulnar styloid with severe synovitis (series #4 images #8-16, series #3 images #9-16).,There is thickening of the extensor tendon sheaths within the fourth dorsal compartment with intrinsically normal tendons (series #4 image #12).,There is extensor carpi radialis longus and brevis synovitis in the second dorsal compartment (series #4 image #13).,Normal flexor tendons within the carpal tunnel. There is mild thickening of the tendon sheaths and the median nerve demonstrates increased signal without compression or enlargement (series #3 image #7, series #4 image #7).,There are no pathological cysts or soft tissue masses.,IMPRESSION:,Partial tear of the volar and membranous components of the scapholunate ligament with an associated posttraumatic cyst in the lunate. There is thickening and laxity of the lunatotriquetral ligament.,Longitudinal split tear of the ECU tendon with tendinosis and severe synovitis.,Synovitis of the second dorsal compartment and tendon sheath thickening in the fourth dorsal compartment.,Tendon sheath thickening within the carpal tunnel with increased signal within the median nerve.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Left elbow fracture dislocation with incarceration of the medial epicondyle with ulnar nerve paresthesias status post closed reduction, attempts 2, right radial shaft fracture with volar apex angulation.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Left elbow fracture dislocation with incarceration of the medial epicondyle with ulnar nerve paresthesias status post closed reduction, attempts 2, right radial shaft fracture with volar apex angulation.,PROCEDURES:  ,1.  Open reduction internal fixation of the left medial epicondyle fracture with placement in a long-arm posterior well-molded splint.,2.  Closed reduction casting of the right forearm.,ANESTHESIA: , Surgery performed under general anesthesia.  Local anesthetic was 10 mL of 0.5% Marcaine.,TOURNIQUET TIME: , On the left was 29 minutes.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,There were no intraoperative complications.,DRAINS: , None.,SPECIMENS: , None.,HISTORY AND PHYSICAL:  ,The patient is a 13-year-old right-hand dominant girl, who fell off a swing at school around 1:30 today.  The patient was initially seen at an outside facility and brought here by her father, given findings on x-ray, a closed reduction was attempted on the left elbow.  After the attempted reduction, the patient was noted to have an incarcerated medial epicondyle fracture as well as increasing ulnar paresthesias that were not present prior to the procedure.  Given this finding, the patient needed urgent open reduction and internal fixation to relieve the pressure on the ulnar nerve.  At that same time, the patient's mildly angulated radial shaft fracture will be reduced.  This was explained to the father.  The risks of surgery included the risk of anesthesia, infection, bleeding, changes in sensation and motion of the extremity, hardware failure, need for later hardware removal, and possible continuous nerve symptoms.  All questions were answered.  The father agreed to the above plan.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was taken to the operating room and placed supine on the operating room table.  General anesthesia was then administered.  The patient received Ancef preoperatively.  The left upper extremity was then prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion.  Attempts to remove the incarcerated medial epicondyle with supination, valgus stress, and with extension were unsuccessful.  It was decided at this time that she would need open reduction.  The arm was wrapped in Esmarch prior to inflation of the tourniquet to 250 mmHg.  The Esmarch was then removed.  An incision was then made.  Care was taken to avoid any injury to the ulnar nerve.  The medial epicondyle fracture was found incarcerated into the anterior aspect of the joint.  This was easily removed.  The ulnar nerve was also identified, and appeared to be intact.  The medial epicondyle was then transfixed using a guidewire into its anatomic position with the outer cortex over drilled with a 3.2 drill bit, and subsequently a 44-mm 4.5 partially threaded cannulated screw was then placed with a washer to hold the medial epicondyle in place.  After fixation of the fragment, the ulnar nerve was visualized as it traveled around the medial epicondyle fracture with no signs of impingement.  The wound was then irrigated with normal saline and closed using 2-0 Vicryl and 4-0 Monocryl.  The wound was clean and dry, dressed with Steri-Strips and Xeroform.  The area was infiltrated with 0.5% Marcaine.  The patient was then placed in a long-arm posterior well-molded splint with 90 degrees of flexion and neutral rotation.  The tourniquet was released at 30 minutes prior to placement of the dressing, showed no significant bleeding.  Attention was then turned to right side, the arm was then manipulated and a well-molded long-arm cast placed.  The final position in the cast revealed a very small residual volar apex angulation, which is quite acceptable in this age.  The patient tolerated the procedure well, was subsequently extubated and taken to recovery in a stable condition.,POSTOPERATIVE PLAN: , The patient will be hospitalized for pain control and neurovascular testing for the next 1 to 2 days.  The father was made aware of the intraoperative findings.  All questions answered.
Pap smear in November 2006 showed atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance.  She has a history of an abnormal Pap smear.  At that time, she was diagnosed with CIN 3 as well as vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia.  She underwent a cone biopsy that per her report was negative for any pathology.  She had no vulvar treatment at that time.  Since that time, she has had normal Pap smears.  She denies abnormal vaginal bleeding, discharge, or pain.  She uses Yaz for birth control.  She reports one sexual partner since 1994 and she is a nonsmoker.,She states that she has a tendency to have yeast infections and bacterial vaginosis.  She is also being evaluated for a possible interstitial cystitis because she gets frequent urinary tract infections.  She had a normal mammogram done in August 2006 and a history of perirectal condyloma that have been treated by Dr. B.  She also has a history of chlamydia when she was in college.,PAST MEDICAL HX: , Depression.,PAST SURGICAL HX: , None.,MEDICATIONS: , Lexapro 10 mg a day and Yaz.,ALLERGIES: , NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.,OB HX: , Normal spontaneous vaginal delivery at term in 2001 and 2004, Abc weighed 8 pounds 7 ounces and Xyz weighed 10 pounds 5 ounces.,FAMILY HX:  ,Maternal grandfather who had a MI which she reports is secondary to tobacco and alcohol use.  He currently has metastatic melanoma, mother with hypertension and depression, father with alcoholism.,SOCIAL HX:,  She is a public relations consultant.  She is a nonsmoker, drinks infrequent alcohol and does not use drugs.  She enjoys horseback riding and teaches jumping.,PE: , VITALS: Height: 5 feet 6 inches.  Weight: 139 lb.  BMI: 22.4.  Blood Pressure: 102/58.  GENERAL: She is well-developed and well-nourished with normal habitus and no deformities.  She is alert and oriented to time, place, and person and her mood and affect is normal.  NECK: Without thyromegaly or lymphadenopathy.  LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  HEART: Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.  BREASTS: Deferred.  ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender, and nondistended.  There is no organomegaly or lymphadenopathy.  PELVIC: Normal external female genitalia.  Vulva, vagina, and urethra, within normal limits.  Cervix is status post cone biopsy; however, the transformation zone grossly appears normal and cervical discharge is clear and normal in appearance.  GC and chlamydia cultures as well as a repeat Pap smear were done.,Colposcopy is then performed without and with acetic acid.  This shows an entirely normal transformation zone, so no biopsies are taken.  An endocervical curettage is then performed with Cytobrush and curette and sent to pathology.  Colposcopy of the vulva is then performed again with acetic acid.  There is a thin strip of acetowhite epithelium located transversely on the clitoral hood that is less than a centimeter in diameter.  There are absolutely no abnormal vessels within this area.  The vulvar colposcopy is completely within normal limits.,A/P: , ASCUS Pap smear with history of a cone biopsy in 1993 and normal followup.,We will check the results of the Pap smear, in addition we have ordered DNA testing for high-risk HPV.  We will check the results of the ECC.  She will return in two weeks for test results.  If these are normal, she will need two normal Pap smears six months apart, and I think followup colposcopy for the vulvar changes.
SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient complains of backache, stomachache, and dysuria for the last two days.  Fever just started today and cough.  She has history of kidney stones less than a year ago and had a urinary tract infection at that time.  Her back started hurting last night.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  She denies sexual activities since two years ago.  Her last menstrual period was 06/01/2004.  Her periods have been irregular.  She started menarche at 10 years of age and she is still irregular and it runs in Mom’s side of the family.  Mom and maternal aunt have had total hysterectomies.  She also is diagnosed with abnormal valve has to be on SBE prophylaxis, sees Dr. XYZ Allen.  She avoids decongestants.  She is limited on her activity secondary to her heart condition.,MEDICATION:,  Cylert.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure is 124/72.  Temperature 99.2.  Respirations 20 unlabored.  Weight:  137 pounds.,HEENT:  Normocephalic.  Conjunctivae noninjected.  No mattering noted.  Her TMs are bilaterally clear, nonerythematous.  Throat clear, good mucous membrane moisture, but she did have erythema and edema at her posterior soft palate.,Neck:  Supple.  Increased lymphadenopathy noted in the submandibular nodes, but no axillary nodes and no hepatosplenomegaly.,Respiratory:  Clear.  No wheezes, no crackles, no tachypnea, and no retractions.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2 normal, no murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft.  No organomegaly.  She did have exquisite tenderness to palpation of the left upper quadrant and flank area, but the spleen was not palpable.  She has no suprapubic tenderness.,Extremities:  She has good range of motion of upper and lower extremities.  Good ambulation.,Her UA was positive for 2+ leukocyte esterase, positive nitrites, 1+ protein, 2+ ketones, 4+ blood, greater than 50 white blood cells, 10-20 rbc’s, and 1+ bacteria.  Culture and sensitivity is pending.  Her Strep test is negative.  Culture is pending.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Urinary dysuria.,2.  Left flank pain.,3.  Pharyngitis.,PLAN:,  A 1 g of Rocephin IM was given.  Call Dr. B's office tomorrow morning incase a second IM dose is needed.  If not then she will fill a prescription for Omnicef 300 mg capsule 1 p.o. b.i.d. for 10 days total and then we will await the culture and sensitivity results to see if this is appropriate drug.  Push fluids.  Await strep culture report.  Follow up with Dr. XYZ if no better or symptoms worsen.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Jaw pain.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,This is a 58-year-old male who started out having toothache in the left lower side of the mouth that is now radiating into his jaw and towards his left ear.  Triage nurse reported that he does not believe it is his tooth because he has regular dental appointments, but has not seen a dentist since this new toothache began.  The patient denies any facial swelling.  No headache.  No swelling to the throat.  No sore throat.  No difficulty swallowing liquids or solids.  No neck pain.  No lymph node swelling.  The patient denies any fever or chills.  Denies any other problems or complaints.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  CONSTITUTIONAL:  No fever or chills.  No fatigue or weakness.  HEENT:  No headache.  No neck pain.  No eye pain or vision change.  No rhinorrhea.  No sinus congestion, pressure, or pain.  No sore throat.  No throat swelling.  The patient does have the toothache on the left lower side that radiates towards his left ear as previously described.  The patient does not have ear pain or hearing change.  No pressure in the ear.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  No chest pain.  RESPIRATIONS:  No shortness of breath.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  No nausea or vomiting.  No abdominal pain.  MUSCULOSKELETAL:  No back pain.  SKIN:  No rashes or lesions.  NEUROLOGIC:  No vision or hearing change.  No speech change.  HEMATOLOGIC/LYMPHATIC:  No lymph node swelling.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , None.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,  None.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , None.,ALLERGIES: , NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient smokes marijuana.  The patient does not smoke cigarettes.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 98.2 oral, blood pressure is 168/84, pulse is 87, respirations 16, and oxygen saturation is 100% on room air and interpreted as normal.  CONSTITUTIONAL:  The patient is well nourished, well developed.  The patient appears to be healthy.  The patient is calm, comfortable in no acute distress, looks well.  The patient is pleasant and cooperative.  HEENT:  Head is atraumatic, normocephalic, and nontender.  Eyes are normal with clear cornea and conjunctivae bilaterally.  Nose, normal without rhinorrhea or audible congestion.  There is no tenderness over the sinuses.  Ears are normal without any sign of infection.  No erythema or swelling of the canals.  Tympanic membranes are intact and normal without any erythema, bulging, air fluid levels, or bubbles behind it.  MOUTH:  The patient has a dental fracture at tooth #18.  The patient states that the fracture is a couple of months old.  The patient does not have any obvious dental caries.  The gums are normal without any erythema, swelling, or evidence of infection.  There is no fluctuance or suggestion of abscess.  There is slight tenderness of the tooth #18.  The oropharynx is normal without any sign of infection.  There is no erythema, exudate, lesion, or swelling.  Mucous membranes are moist.  Floor of the mouth is normal without any tenderness or swelling.  No suggestion of abscess.  There is no pre or post auricular lymphadenopathy either.  NECK:  Supple.  Nontender.  Full range of motion.  No meningismus.  No cervical lymphadenopathy.  No JVD.  No carotid artery or vertebral artery bruits.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Heart is regular rate and rhythm without murmur, rub, or gallop.  RESPIRATIONS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No shortness of breath.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  Abdomen is normal and nontender.  MUSCULOSKELETAL:  No abnormalities are noted to the back, arms, or legs.  The patient has normal use of the extremities.  SKIN:  No rashes or lesions.  NEUROLOGIC:  Cranial nerves II through XII are intact.  The patient has normal speech and normal ambulation.  PSYCHIATRIC:  The patient is alert and oriented x4.  Normal mood and affect.  No evidence of clinical intoxification.  HEMATOLOGIC/LYMPHATIC:  No lymphadenitis is palpated.,DIAGNOSES:,1.  ACUTE LEFT JAW PAIN.,2.  #18 DENTAL FRACTURE, WHICH IS AN ELLIS TYPE II FRACTURE.,3.  ELEVATED BLOOD PRESSURE.,CONDITION UPON DISPOSITION: , Stable.,DISPOSITION:,  Home.,PLAN: , We will have the patient follow up with his dentist Dr. X in three to five days for reevaluation.  The patient was encouraged to take Motrin 400 mg q.6h. as needed for pain.  The patient was given prescription for Vicodin for any breakthrough or uncontrolled pain.  He was given precautions for drowsiness and driving with the use of this medication.  The patient was also given a prescription for pen V.  The patient was given discharge instructions on toothache and asked to return to emergency room should he have any worsening of his condition, develop any other problems or symptoms of concern.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Rotated cuff tear, right shoulder.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Rotated cuff tear, right shoulder.,2.  Glenoid labrum tear.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Arthroscopy with arthroscopic glenoid labrum debridement.,2.  Subacromial decompression.,3.  Rotator cuff repair, right shoulder.,SPECIFICATIONS:,  Intraoperative procedure was done at Inpatient Operative Suite, room #1 at ABCD Hospital.  This was done under interscalene and subsequent general anesthetic in the modified beach chair position.,HISTORY AND GROSS FINDINGS: , The patient is a 48-year-old with male who has been suffering increasing right shoulder pain for a number of months prior to surgical intervention.  He was completely refractory to conservative outpatient therapy.  After discussing the alternative care as well as the advantages, disadvantages, risks, complications, and expectations, he elected to undergo the above stated procedure on this date.,Intraarticularly, the joint was observed.  There was noted to be a degenerative glenoid labrum tear.  The biceps complex was otherwise intact.  There were minimal degenerative changes at the glenohumeral joint.  Rotator cuff tear was appreciated on the inner surface.  Subacromially, the same was true.  This was an elliptical to V-type tear.  The patient has a grossly positive type III acromion.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: , The patient was laid supine on the operating table after receiving interscalene and then general anesthetic by the Anesthesia Department.  He was safely placed in modified beach chair position.  He was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner.  Portals were created outside to end, posterior to anterior, and ultimately laterally in the typical fashion.  Upon complete diagnostic arthroscopy was carried out in the intraarticular aspect of the joint, a 4.2 meniscus shaver was placed anteriorly with the scope posteriorly.  Debridement was carried out to the glenoid labrum.  The biceps was probed and noted to be intact.  Undersurface of the rotator cuff was debrided with the shaver along with debridement of the subchondral region of the greater tuberosity attachment.,After this, instrumentation was removed.  The scope was placed subacromially and a lateral portal created.  Gross bursectomy was carried out in a stepwise fashion to the top part of the cuff as well as in the gutters.  An anterolateral portal was created.  Sutures were placed via express silk as well as other sutures with a #2 fiber wire.  With passing of the suture, they were tied with a slip-tight knot and then two half stitches.  There was excellent reduction of the tear.  Superolateral portal was then created.  A #1 Mitek suture anchor was then placed in the posterior cuff to bring this over to bleeding bone.  _______ suture was placed.  The implant was put into place.  The loop was grabbed and it was impacted in the previously drilled holes.  There was excellent reduction of the tear.,Trial range of motion was carried out and seemed to be satisfactory.,Prior to this, a subacromial decompression was accomplished after release of CA ligament with the vapor Bovie.  A 4.8 motorized barrel burr was utilized to sequentially take this down from the type III acromion to a flat type I acromion.,After all was done, copious irrigation was carried out throughout the joint.  Gross bursectomy lightly was carried out to remove all bony elements.  A pain buster catheter was placed through a separate portal and cut to length.  0.5% Marcaine was instilled after portals were closed with #4-0 nylon.  Adaptic, 4 x 4s, ABDs, and Elastoplast tape placed for dressing.  The patient was ultimately transferred to his cart and PACU in apparent satisfactory condition.  Expected surgical prognosis of this patient is fair.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 71-year-old woman with history of coronary artery disease for which she has had coronary artery bypass grafting x2 and percutaneous coronary intervention with stenting x1.  She also has a significant history of chronic renal insufficiency and severe COPD.  The patient and her husband live in ABC but they have family in XYZ.  She came to our office today as she is in the area visiting her family.  She complains of having shortness of breath for the past month that has been increasingly getting worse.  She developed a frequent nonproductive cough about 2 weeks ago.  She has also had episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, awaking in the middle of the night, panicking from dyspnea and shortness of breath.  She has also gained about 15 pounds in the past few months and has significant peripheral edema.  In the office, she is obviously dyspnea and speaking in 2 to 3 word sentences.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Coronary artery disease, anemia secondary to chronic renal insufficiency, stage IV chronic kidney disease, diabetic nephropathy, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, COPD, insulin-dependent diabetes, mild mitral valve regurgitation, severe tricuspid valve regurgitation, sick sinus syndrome, gastritis, and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , Status post pacemaker implantation, status post CABG x4 in 1999 and status post CABG x2 in 2003, status post PCA stenting x1 to the left anterior descending artery, cholecystectomy, back surgery, bladder surgery, and colonic polypectomies.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient is married.  Lives with her husband.  They are retired from ABC.,MEDICATIONS:,1.  Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily.,2.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.,3.  Isosorbide mononitrate 60 mg p.o. daily.,4.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.,5.  Atenolol 50 mg p.o. daily.,6.  Lantus insulin 15 units subcutaneously every evening.,7.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.,8.  Furosemide 40 mg p.o. daily.,9.  Norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily.,ALLERGIES: , SHE IS ALLERGIC TO HEPARIN AGENTS, WHICH CAUSE HEPARIN-INDUCED THROMBOCYTOPENIA.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS,CONSTITUTIONAL:  Positive for generalized fatigue and malaise.,HEAD AND NECK:  Negative for diplopia, blurred vision, visual disturbances, hearing loss, tinnitus, epistaxis, vertigo, sinusitis, and gum or oral lesions.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Positive for epigastric discomfort x2 weeks, negative for palpitations, syncope or near-syncopal episodes, chest pressure, and chest pain.,RESPIRATORY:  Positive for dyspnea at rest, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, and frequent nonproductive cough.  Negative for wheezing.,ABDOMEN:  Negative for abdominal pain, bloating, nausea, vomiting, constipation, melena, or hematemesis.,GENITOURINARY:  Negative for dysuria, polyuria, hematuria, or incontinence.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Negative for recent trauma, stiffness, deformities, muscular weakness, or atrophy.,SKIN:  Negative for rashes, petechiae, and hair or nail changes.  Positive for easy bruising on forearms.,NEUROLOGIC:  Negative for paralysis, paresthesias, dysphagia, or dysarthria.,PSYCHIATRIC:  Negative for depression, anxiety, or mood swings.,All other systems reviewed are negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Her blood pressure in the office was 188/94, heart rate 70, respiratory rate 18 to 20, and saturations 99% on room air.  Her height is 63 inches.  She is weighs 195 pounds and her BMI is 34.6.,CONSTITUTIONAL:  A 71-year-old woman in significant distress from shortness of breath and dyspnea at rest.,HEENT:  Eyes:  Pupils are reactive.  Sclera is nonicteric.  Ears, nose, mouth, and throat.,NECK:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  No thyromegaly.  Swallow is intact.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Positive JVD at 45 degrees.  Heart tones are distant.  S1 and S2.  No murmurs.,EXTREMITIES:  Have 3+ edema in the feet and ankles bilaterally that extends up to her knees.  Femoral pulses are weakly palpable.  Posterior tibial pulses are not palpable.  Capillary refill is somewhat sluggish.,RESPIRATORY:  Breath sounds are clear with some bilateral basilar diminishment.  No rales and no wheezing.  Speaking in 2 to 3 word sentences.  Diaphragmatic excursions are limited.  AP diameter is expanded.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Active bowel sounds x4 quadrants.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  No masses are appreciated.,GENITOURINARY:  Deferred.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Adequate range of motion along with extremities.,SKIN:  Warm and dry.  No lesions or ulcerations are noted.,NEUROLOGIC:  Alert and oriented x3.  Head is normocephalic and atraumatic.  No focal, motor, or sensory deficits.,PSYCHIATRIC:  Normal affect.,IMPRESSION,1.  Coronary artery disease.
SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient comes back to see me today.  She is a pleasant 77-year-old Caucasian female who had seen Dr. XYZ with right leg pain.  She has a history of prior laminectomy for spinal stenosis.  She has seen Dr. XYZ with low back pain and lumbar scoliosis post laminectomy syndrome, lumbar spinal stenosis, and clinical right L2 radiculopathy, which is symptomatic.  Dr. XYZ had performed two right L2-L3 transforaminal epidural injections, last one in March 2005.  She was subsequently seen and Dr. XYZ found most of her remaining symptoms are probably coming from her right hip.  An x-ray of the hip showed marked degenerative changes with significant progression of disease compared to 08/04/2004 study.  Dr. XYZ had performed right intraarticular hip injection on 04/07/2005.  She was last seen on 04/15/2005.  At that time, she had the hip injection that helped her briefly with her pain.  She is not sure whether or not she wants to proceed with hip replacement.  We recommend she start using a cane and had continued her on some pain medicines.,The patient comes back to see me today.  She continues to complain of significant pain in her right hip, especially with weightbearing or with movement.  She said she had made an appointment to see an orthopedic surgeon in Newton as it is closer and more convenient for her.  She is taking Ultracet or other the generic it sounds like, up to four times daily.  She states she can take this much more frequently as she still has significant pain symptoms.  She is using a cane to help her ambulate.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Essentially unchanged from her visit of 04/15/2005.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Reveals a pleasant Caucasian female.,Vital Signs:  Height is 5 feet 4 inches.  Weight is 149 pounds.  She is afebrile.,HEENT:  Benign.,Neck:  Shows functional range of movements with a negative Spurling's.,Musculoskeletal:  Examination shows some mild degenerative joint disease of both knees with grade weakness of her right hip flexors and half-grade weakness of her right hip adductors and right quadriceps, as compared to the left.  Straight leg raises are negative bilaterally.  Posterior tibials are palpable bilaterally.,Skin and Lymphatics:  Examination of the skin does not reveal any additional scars, rashes, cafe au lait spots or ulcers.  No significant lymphadenopathy noted.,Spine:  Examination shows lumbar scoliosis with surgical scar with no major tenderness.  Spinal movements are limited but functional.,Neurological:  She is alert and oriented with appropriate mood and affect.  She has normal tone and coordination.  Reflexes are 2+ and symmetrical.  Sensations are intact to pinprick.,FUNCTIONAL EXAMINATION:,  Gait has a normal stance and swing phase with no antalgic component to it.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Degenerative disk disease of the right hip, symptomatic.,2.  Low back syndrome, lumbar spinal stenosis, clinically right L2 radiculopathy, stable.,3.  Low back pain with lumbar scoliosis post laminectomy syndrome, stable.,4.  Facet and sacroiliac joint syndrome on the right, stable.,5.  Post left hip arthroplasty.,6.  Chronic pain syndrome.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  The patient is symptomatic primarily on her right hip and is planning on seeing an orthopedic surgeon for possible right hip replacement.  In the interim, her Ultracet is not quite taking care of her pain.  I have asked her to discontinue it and we will start her on Tylenol #3, up to four times a day.  I have written a prescription for this for 120 tablets and two refills.  The patient will call for the refills when she needs them.  I will plan further follow up in six months, sooner if needed.  She voiced understanding and is in agreement with this plan.  Physical exam findings, history of present illness and recommendations were performed with and in agreement with Dr. Goel's findings.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cervical myelopathy, C3-4, secondary to stenosis from herniated nucleus pulposus, C3-4.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Cervical myelopathy, C3-4, secondary to stenosis from herniated nucleus pulposus, C3-4.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURES,1.  Anterior cervical discectomy with decompression, C3-4.,2.  Arthrodesis with anterior interbody fusion, C3-4.,3.  Spinal instrumentation using Pioneer 18-mm plate and four 14 x 4.3 mm screws (all titanium).,4.  Implant using PEEK 7 mm.,5.  Allograft using Vitoss.,DRAINS: , Round French 10 JP drain.,FLUIDS: , 1800 mL of crystalloids.,URINE OUTPUT:  ,1000 mL.,SPECIMENS: , None.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,None.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal anesthesia.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,Less than 100 mL.,CONDITION:  ,To postanesthesia care unit extubated with stable vital signs.,INDICATIONS FOR THE OPERATION:  ,This is a case of a very pleasant 32-year-old Caucasian male who had been experiencing posterior neck discomfort and was shooting basketball last week, during which time he felt a pop.  Since then, the patient started complaining of acute right arm and right leg weakness, which had been progressively worsening.  About two days ago, he started noticing weakness on the left arm.  The patient also noted shuffling gait.  The patient presented to a family physician and was referred to Dr. X for further evaluation.  Dr. X could not attempt to this, so he called me at the office and the patient was sent to the emergency room, where an MRI of the brain was essentially unremarkable as well as MRI of the thoracic spine.  MRI of the cervical spine, however, revealed an acute disk herniation at C3-C4 with evidence of stenosis and cord changes.  Based on these findings, I recommended decompression.  The patient was started on Decadron at 10 mg IV q.6h.  Operation, expected outcome, risks, and benefits were discussed with him.  Risks to include but not exclusive of bleeding and infection.  Bleeding can be superficial, but can compromise airway, for which he has been told that he may be brought emergently back to the operating room for evacuation of said hematoma.  The hematoma could also be an epidural hematoma, which may compress the spinal cord and result in weakness of all four extremities, numbness of all four extremities, and impairment of bowel and bladder function.  Should this happen, he needs to be brought emergently back to the operating room for evacuation of said hematoma.  There is also the risk by removing the hematoma that he can deteriorate as far as neurological condition, but this hopefully with the steroid prep will be prevented or if present will only be transient.  There is also the possibility of infection, which can be superficial and treated with IV and p.o. antibiotics.  However, should the infection be extensive or be deep, he may require return to the operating room for debridement and irrigation.  This may pose a medical problem since in the presence of infection, the graft as well as spinal instrumentation may have to be removed.  There is also the possibility of dural tear with its attendant complaints of headache, nausea, vomiting, photophobia, as well as the development of pseudomeningocele.  This too can compromise airway and may require return to the operating room for repair of the dural tear.  There is also potential risk of injury to the esophagus, the trachea, as well as the carotid.  The patient can also have a stroke on the right cerebral circulation should the plaque be propelled into the right circulation.  The patient understood all these risks together with the risk associated with anesthesia and agreed to have the procedure performed.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was brought to the operating room, awake, alert and not in any form of distress.  After smooth induction and intubation, a Foley catheter was inserted.  No monitoring leads were placed.  The patient was then positioned supine on the operating table with the head supported on a foam doughnut and the neck placed on hyperextension with a shoulder roll under both shoulders.  Localizing x-ray verified the marker to be right at the C3-4 interspace.  Proceeded to mark an incision along the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid with the central point at the area of the marker measuring about 3 cm in length.  The area was then prepped with DuraPrep.,After sterile drapes were laid out, an incision was made using a scalpel blade #10.  Wound edge bleeders were controlled with bipolar coagulation and a hot knife was utilized to cut the platysma in a similar fashion.  The anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid was identified and dissection was carried superior to and lateral to the esophagus and trachea, but medial to the carotid sheath.  The prevertebral fascia was identified.  Localizing x-ray verified another marker to be at the C3-4 interspace.  Proceeded to strip the longus colli muscles off the vertebral body of C3 and C4 and a self-retaining retractor was then laid out.  There was some degree of anterior osteophyte and this was carefully drilled down with a Midas 5-mm bur.  The disk was then cut through the annulus and removal of the disk was done with the use of the Midas 5-mm bur and later a 3-mm bur.  The inferior endplate of C3 and the superior endplate of C4 were likewise drilled out together with posterior inferior osteophyte at the C3 and the posterior superior osteophyte at C4.  There was note of a central disk herniation centrally, but more marked displacement of the cord on the left side.  By careful dissection of this disk, posterior longitudinal ligament was removed and pressure on the cord was removed.  Hemostasis of the epidural bleeders was done with a combination of bipolar coagulation, but we needed to put a small piece of Gelfoam on the patient's left because of profuse venous bleeder.  With this completed, the Valsalva maneuver showed no evidence of any CSF leakage.  A 7-mm implant with its interior packed with Vitoss was then tapped into place.  An 18-mm plate was then screwed down with four 14 x 4.0 mm screws.  The area was irrigated with saline, with bacitracin solution.  Postoperative x-ray showed excellent placement of the graft and spinal instrumentation.  A round French 10 JP drain was laid over the construct and exteriorized though a separate stab incision on the patient's right inferiorly.  The wound was then closed in layers with Vicryl 3-0 inverted interrupted sutures for the platysma, Vicryl 4-0 subcuticular stitch for the dermis and Dermabond.  The catheter was anchored to the skin with a nylon 3-0 stitch.  Dressing was placed only on the exit site of the drain.  C-collar was placed, and the patient was transferred to the recovery awake and moving all four extremities.